---> Selenium <-------

What is Selenium? What are its components? 
What are the different types of locators in Selenium? 
Diff between absolute and Relative x path 
What are the advantages and limitations of Selenium?  
How do you launch a browser in Selenium WebDriver? 
What are the commonly used WebDriver methods? 
How do you handle dynamic elements in Selenium? 
Fastest locator in selenium-> Id, name then CSS selector 
How do you handle dropdowns in Selenium? 

 Intermediate Selenium Interview Questions 
How do you handle frames and iframes in Selenium? 
How do you handle alerts and popups in Selenium? 
What are waits in Selenium? Explain implicit and explicit waits. 
How do you take a screenshot in Selenium? 
What is Page Object Model (POM)? Why is it used? 
How do you handle multiple windows in Selenium? 
What is the difference between find Element() and find Elements()? 
How do you perform mouse hover actions in Selenium? 
How to open browser in Incognito mode? 
Preceding sibling and following sibling? 
Diff between selenium 3 and selenium 4? 
How to perform keyboard actions? 
How to scroll up/down and scroll right/left to specific element? 
Web element we are importing from-> org.openqa.selenium 
Can we overload and override constructor? 
How you are using Gen AI/Chat GPT in your Testing OR Automation testing? 

🔵 Advanced Selenium Interview Questions 
What is Selenium Grid? How do you use it? 
How to capture all broken links? 
How to select All check boxex? 
How do you handle Captcha or OTP in Selenium? 
How do you test file uploads and downloads in Selenium? 
Where we can use java script executor? 
Itest Lisner? 
What are the dependency you have added for your project? 
How to read OTP from gmail-> using javamail Api OR gmail APi 

⚙️ Selenium with Frameworks & Tools 
How do you use Data-Driven Testing in Selenium? 
What is a headless browser? How do you use it with Selenium? 
Explain Framework? 
How you will select the test cases for Automation?--->1.test cases which are most of time repeated in each build  2. test cases which having more or maximum No of steps  3. test cases those are complex in nature 

 
---------> Java <-----------------

🟢 Basic OOPs Interview Questions (for Automation Test Engineers) 

What are the four main pillars of OOP in Java? 
What is the difference between an object and a class? 
What is encapsulation? How is it useful in Selenium automation? 
Explain inheritance with an example. How is it used in your test framework? 
What is polymorphism? What are the types? 
What is method overloading and method overriding? Give real-time examples. 
What is abstraction? How is it achieved in Java? 
What is the difference between an abstract class and an interface? 
Can we create an object of an abstract class? Why or why not? 
What is the role of constructors in Java? Can a test class have multiple constructors? 
Diff between method and contructor? 
Can we overload main method? 
Exception in java? 
Typecasting? 
Set and list Diff? 
String class Methods?  Concat, trim, charAt, length, equals (case sensitive), equalsIgnoreCase,  split, ToUpperCase, Lowercase, replace 
Final, Finally, and Finalize in java? 
What is the use of the super and this  keyword? 
How do you implement reusability using inheritance or interfaces? 
Try and catch Block? 
List and set we are importing from-> java.util 
What are access modifiers in Java? 
Diff between Array and ArrayList()? 

 

------------> BDD- Cucumber <-------------------- 

🟢 Basic Cucumber Interview Questions 

What are the main components of a Cucumber framework? 
What is a Feature File in Cucumber? 
What is a Step Definition? How is it linked to feature files? 
How do you run a Cucumber test in Java? 
Importing packages from io.cucumber.java 
What is the difference between Scenario and Scenario Outline? 
What are Hooks in Cucumber? What are @Before and @After used for? 
How do you organize Step Definitions across different feature files? 
Can you reuse step definitions? How? 
What are Tags in Cucumber and how do you use them for test selection? 
What is Background in Cucumber and when should it be used? 
How do you generate Cucumber reports (HTML, JSON, etc.)? 
How do you run Cucumber tests in parallel? 
What are some challenges you've faced while working with Cucumber and how did you overcome them? 

 
---------> Test NG <------------- 
What is TestNG? 
What are the main features of TestNG? 
Explain the annotations in TestNG. 
What is the execution order of TestNG annotations? 
How do you set the priority of test cases in TestNG? 
How do you disable a test in TestNG? 
What is invocation Count in TestNG? 
How do you make one test case dependent on another in TestNG? 
Can we have multiple @BeforeTest or @AfterTest methods in a class? 

🔹 Test Execution & Configuration 

How do you execute test cases using testng.xml? 
What is grouping in TestNG? How do you use it? 
How do you run only a specific set of test cases from a suite? 
How do you run tests in parallel in TestNG? 
How do you parameterize test cases using testng.xml? 
What is the difference between @Parameters and @DataProvider? 
Can we run test methods without using testng.xml? 
Can we run TestNG classes without the main() method? 
How do you ignore a test case in TestNG? 
Assertion in Test NG? 
How you will execute only fail test cases in test ng? 


🔹 Advanced Features 

What are Listeners in TestNG? 
What is the use of ITestListener interface? 
How do you generate custom TestNG reports? 
What is the difference between @Factory and @DataProvider in TestNG? 

 
--------> API Testing <-------------

✅ Basic API Testing Questions 

What is an API? 
What is the difference between API Testing and UI Testing? 
What are the common types of APIs? 
What are HTTP methods? Name a few. 
HTTP status codes3 
What is Query and path parameter? 
What are headers in an API request? Why are they used? 
API and web service diff? 
What are the thing you re validating in api testing? 
What is the response code we are getting when we use PUT and PATCH? -> 200 

 
🛠️ Practical/Tool-Based Questions 

What is a collection in Postman? 
How do you test a secured (authenticated) API in Postman? 
How do you analyze headers and response codes in Postman? 
What is Swagger and how do you use it for API testing? 
Bugs in API testing? 
API test cases 
Path and query params? 
Rest API? Rest api gherkin format request 
Diff between auth1.0 and 2.0? 

 
 

🧠Extra Quetions 

Pm is library 

Chai is assertion library in postmana 

Variables in Postman? 

https://employee.com/users/page=2   get request sample used to explain 

https://employee.com/users 

 

 

Behavior Int Questions 

 

Challenges in Automation OR software testing?  -> Unavailability of test data as test data required for each regression testing before each release, Environment issue, Communication gap between dev and qa (give example as dev making some changes in the dev and Not pushing those changes in the QA env. 

What are the challenges in Agile methodology? 

What type of test cases an have in smoke suit?---> URL is aaceebile, User should able to login and logout, basic navigation should working file such as Home page, dasboard, Pagination etc 

How many test cases can have in smoke test suite--> depends on type of aplication..But roughly I can say 10-15 NO test cases. 

How you will figured out the test cases for regression?---> Will mostly fig out the test cases those will cover the mainly core features of the appliction 

How many time was release was happning in your team?--> So we were having release after 2 month which is equal to 8 NO of sprints ( 2 weeks of sprint) 

Which selenium version you have use?---> Current version you can say 4.1 which was release on Oct 2021. 

Which java version you are currently using--> Java 21 

Current chrome browser version-> 138 

How many manual test cases you can write? It depends on complexity of app, requirement understanding but roughly count-60+ test cases 

What are the test case design technique? 

 

Agile Methodology 

Diff between Agile and scrum? 

Story point? 

User story? 

What Accepatance criteria? 

Challenges in Agile? 

Agile Ceremonies? 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
